Replace `Hub` docs with `Scopes` (#12377)
getsentry/sentry-docs: docs/platforms/java/common/enriching-events/scopes/index.mdx

---
title: Scopes
description: "SDKs will typically automatically manage the scopes for you in the framework integrations. Learn what a scope is and how you can use it to your advantage."
---

When an event is captured and sent to Sentry, SDKs will merge that event data with extra
information from the current scope. SDKs will typically automatically manage the scopes
for you in the framework integrations and you don't need to think about them. However,
you should know what a scope is and how you can use it to your advantage.

## What's a Scope?

Scopes hold useful information that gets sent along with the
event. For instance, [contexts](../context/) and
[breadcrumbs](../breadcrumbs/) are stored on
the scope. When a scope is forked, it inherits all data from its parent scope.

The default SDK integrations will fork scopes intelligently. For
instance, web framework integrations will fork scopes around your
routes or request handlers.

## How Scopes Work

> Scopes are basically a stack of data that is attached to events. When an event is captured, the SDK will merge the data from the active scopes into the event. This allows you to attach data to events that is relevant to the context in which the event was captured.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Scopes are basically a stacks of data that are attached to events. When an event is captured, the SDK will merge the data from the active scopes into the event. This allows you to attach data to events that is relevant to the context in which the event was captured.
```

A scope is generally valid inside of a callback or an execution context. This means that multiple parts of your application may have different scopes active at the same time. For instance, a web server might handle multiple requests at the same time, and each request may have different scope data to apply to its events.

> When you call a global function such as `Sentry.captureException`, internally Sentry discovers the active scopes and uses them when capturing the event.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you call a global function such as `Sentry.captureException`, Sentry automatically discovers the active scopes and applies them when capturing the event.
```

The global scope is applied to _all_ events, no matter where they originate. You can use it to store data that should apply to all events, such as environmental information.

You can access the global scope via `Sentry.getGlobalScope()` or `Sentry.configureScope(ScopeType.GLOBAL, globalScope -> { ... })`.

### Isolation Scope

The isolation scope is used to isolate events from each other. For example, each request in a web server might get its own isolation scope, so that events from one request don't interfere with events from another request. In most cases, you'll want to put data that should be applied to your events on the isolation scope - which is also why all `Sentry.setXXX` methods, like `Sentry.setTag()`, will write data onto the currently active isolation scope. A classic example for data that belongs on the isolation scope is a user - each request may have a different user, so you want to make sure that the user is set on the isolation scope.

You can modify the isolation scope via `Sentry.configureScope(ScopeType.ISOLATION, isolationScope -> { ... })`, but usually you'll just use the `Sentry.setXXX` methods to set data on the currently active isolation scope:

> ```java

Reviewer 2: Should we also add a Kotlin sample here?

Author: Yeah, let's do it in a follow up PR, I've created https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-java/issues/4067 so we don't forget.

Sentry.setTag("my-tag", "my value");
// Is identical to:
Sentry.configureScope(ScopeType.ISOLATION, scope -> {
  scope.setTag("my-tag", "my value");
});
```

### Current Scope

The current scope is the local scope that is currently active. Unlike the rarely-forked isolation scope, the current scope may be forked more frequently and under the hood. It can be used to store data that should only be applied to specific events. In most cases, you should not access this scope directly, but use `Sentry.withScope` to create a new scope that is only active for a specific part of your code:

> ```java

Reviewer 2: Should we also add a Kotlin sample here?

Sentry.withScope(scope -> {
  // scope is the current scope inside of this callback!
  scope.setTag("my-tag", "my value");
  // this tag will only be applied to events captured inside of this callback
  // the following event will have the tag:
  Sentry.captureException(new Exception("my error"));
});
// this event will not have the tag:
Sentry.captureException(new Exception("my other error"));
```

You can modify the current scope via `Sentry.configureScope(ScopeType.CURRENT, scope -> { ... })`, but usually you should use `Sentry.withScope()` to interact with local scopes instead.

## How Scope Data is Applied to Events

> Global scope, isolation scope and current scope are combined before an event (like an error or transaction) is sent to Sentry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Global scope, isolation scope, and current scope are combined before an event (like an error or transaction) gets sent to Sentry.
```

In most cases, setting something on current scope replaces the same thing that may have been set on isolation or global scope. If it hasn't been set on current scope, the value on isolation scope takes precedence over the one from global scope. If there also isn't any value on isolation scope, the one from global scope is used if present.

Note, there are exceptions to this, where values from all scopes are merged. This is the case for breadcrumbs, tags, extras, contexts, attachments and event processors.

> ```java

Reviewer 2: Should we also add a Kotlin sample here?

Author: Yeah, let's do it in a follow up PR, I've created https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-java/issues/4067 so we don't forget.

more easily isolate pieces of context information to specific locations in your code or
even call <PlatformIdentifier name="clear" /> to briefly remove all context information.

## Using `withIsolationScope`

`withIsolationScope` works fundamentally the same as `withScope`, but it will fork the isolation scope instead of the current scope. Generally, the isolation scope is meant to be forked less frequently than the current scope, and in most cases the SDK will handle this automatically for you.

> But in cases where you e.g. want to isolate a non-request process (e.g. a background job), you can use `withIsolationScope` to create a new isolation scope that is only active for the duration of the callback:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But in cases where you want to isolate a non-request process (for example, a background job), you can use `withIsolationScope` to create a new isolation scope that is only active for the duration of the callback:
```

</Alert>

> ## Kotlin Coroutines

Reviewer 2: Should Coroutines also be mentioned on the Android side?

Author: Not sure, can ask Android folks

Author: Created https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-java/issues/4073
